hi welcome to show me the curry calm I'm
hit oh I'm Volusia and today we're gonna
be showing you how to make samosas I
think it's a very very popular and very
well-known appetizer and it's a very
simple recipe but today we're going to
be making for 2p to a bus so we're going
to be making four samosas but the recipe
that you see on our website and on the
screen is meant for four people so
approximately about 12 samosas so let's
get started right so to start off with
we're going to make the crust for the
samosa and for that we're going to use
one and a half cups of all-purpose flour
or maida and to that we're going to add
3/4 teaspoon salt and 1/4 teaspoon of
adjoint I'm going to mix this up and
we're going to mix in two tablespoons of
oil now this is a really important part
when you're making samosa crust is that
you have to make sure that the oil is
completely incorporated into the flour
and basically if you run it through your
hands like this then you can feel the
little lumps of oil you know make sure
all the lumps are gone and then every
bit of the flour has some portion of the
oil in it and that gives you a nice
pastry type crust so while Heather is
doing that what we have done is just to
give us a little head start we have
soaked in one teaspoon of each of salt
which is a delicious fennel seeds and
one teaspoon of whole coriander seeds
and over here we have one and a half
pounds potatoes you boil them and peel
them and we just kind of cube them so
that's all prepped up and ready to go
right and our flour is ready now it's
completely coated with the oil and to
this we're going to add in 1 tablespoon
of lemon juice and also quarter cup plus
2 tablespoons of water and we're going
to need this into a nice soft dough
and once that's needed we're going to
just take a little bit of plastic wrap
and just wrap it up in that so it
doesn't dry up
we're going to let our dough rest for
about 20 minutes so why we have the
dough resting you got this little time
we're going to start on the mixture or
the filling so we here like we mentioned
we had already cut up the potatoes and
cube them and what we're going to do is
you're going to premix all the spices
and everything to it and then cook it
and over here we have a little pan and
it's got 2 tablespoons of oil already
heating in it so here's the we've
drained out herbs the fennel seeds and
the whole coriander seeds add it to this
it smells so good and salt to taste 1/2
teaspoon of dry mango powder or unto 1/2
teaspoon of garam masala 1/2 teaspoon of
sugar
cilantro and it's about 10 strings 1
tablespoon of minced ginger and green
chilli to taste and we're going to
drizzle some lime juice to taste and
we'll mix this up really well
ok this is ready and you can actually
taste it and make sure everything's ok
good ok our 2 tablespoons of oil are hot
you're going to add in half a teaspoon
of cumin seeds allow them to sizzle
looks good and 1/8 teaspoon of
asafoetida so and 1/2 a cup of green
peas
your potatoes are already cooked so
we're going to let the peas cook for
about two minutes just to soften them up
a little bit do we allowed them to cook
for about a minute and look they look
done you're going to add in the potato
mixture now
you know everything is cooked we're just
going to cook it I'll keep it on the
plane till everything is heated all the
way through so it's been about 20
minutes and our dough has been resting
all this time and are like we showed you
the filling it's already done
and we made sure it goes on to room
temperature before you actually start
putting it in right and we're going to
need the still one more time just to
even it out when you're making samosas
or anything that you're going to fill
it's always a good idea to divide out
your filling - how many / you're making
so one doesn't get more filling than the
next and people aren't jealous all kinds
of things like that so divide your dough
out and - how many samosas you want to
make one portion of course will make two
samosas so divide that out divide your
filling out and then you can proceed we
also have already started heating up the
oil and it's an medium heat and it's
going to be needs to be very well heated
all the way through before we add the
simple cells into this oil so I put a
little bit of oil on my rolling pin and
just smooth it on there so it doesn't
stick to our samosa dough
and we're going to roll this out pretty
thin because this is all-purpose flour
and it tends to be a little more elastic
than your normal wheat flour so the more
you've stretch it out it kind of goes
back into the shape so I make it very
thin so once you have your dough rolled
out into like an oval shape we're going
to cut it down the center and we're
going to take the side and we're going
to take just a little bit of plain water
and lightly brush the edge with this
we're going to overlap the other edge on
top and give it a good pinch seal it
shut and once you do that you have a
little cone that we can stuff in now and
here we have divided the mixture as well
the filling and we're going to put it in
here like so
and try not to over stuff because you
want this part to actually seal we're
going to take our water again a little
bit of water and put it around our edges
and then we're going to stretch this
part
and seal it
and bend it here on the sides and you
have your samosa ready to fry and while
you're rolling the second one sometimes
like I said the the meda or all-purpose
flour is very elastic and the shape that
you rolled out it reduces by quite a bit
so you may have to roll it out again
just a little bit so it's not so thick
all right the oil looks hot and one
little is carrying on I'm going to go
ahead and fry beat careful put it in
very gently do not splash it they look
done we're going to pull them on to the
side they got all the excess oil and
we're gonna put it on a paper towel the
samosas are done they look fantastic and
of course the best way to have samosas
is with chutneys do you have your
diamond chutney and your mint chutney
actually it with ketchup feels so good
good so I didn't sell this absolutely
I'm going to try this don't know about
you but I'm ready for my small stuff all
right
mmm please
excellent Oh delicious okay try it I
gotta dig in better try it I'm gonna
have mine with chutney
so enjoy as Moses and join us again
another sort of showing Akari calm my
turn to get back to her adding a pinch
of spice to your life
you